_sources/autoapi/crep/index.rst, before:

crep
====

.. py:module:: crep


Submodules
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   /autoapi/crep/base/index
   /autoapi/crep/tools/index


Functions
---------

.. autoapisummary::

   crep.merge
   crep.aggregate_constant
   crep.aggregate_duplicates
   crep.merge_event
   crep.aggregate_on_segmentation
   crep.compute_discontinuity


Package Contents
----------------

.. py:function:: merge(data_left: pandas.DataFrame, data_right: pandas.DataFrame, id_continuous: [Any, Any], id_discrete: iter, how: str, remove_duplicates: bool = False, verbose=False) -> pandas.DataFrame

   
   This function aims at creating merge data frame


   :Parameters:

       **data_left**
           data frame with continuous representation

       **data_right**
           data frame with continuous representation

       **id_continuous**
           iterable of length two that delimits the edges of the segment

       **id_discrete: iterable**
           iterable that lists all the columns on which to perform a classic merge

       **how: str**
           how to make the merge, possible options are
           
           - 'left'
           - 'right'
           - 'inner'
           - 'outer'

       **remove_duplicates**
           whether to remove duplicates

       **verbose**
           ..














   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_constant(df: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: iter, id_continuous: iter)

   



   :Parameters:

       **df**
           ..

       **id_discrete**
           ..

       **id_continuous**
           ..



   :Returns:

       
           ..











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_duplicates(df: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: list[Any], id_continuous: [Any, Any], dict_agg: dict[str, list[Any]] | None = None, verbose: bool = False)

   
   Removes duplicated rows by aggregating them.
   TODO : assess


   :Parameters:

       **df** : pandas dataframe
           ..

       **id_discrete** : list
           discrete columns (object or categorical)

       **id_continuous** : list of 2 column names
           continuous columns that delimit the segments' start and end

       **dict_agg: dict, keys: agg operator, values: list of columns or None**
           specify which aggregation operator to apply for which column. If None, default is mean for all columns.
           id_continuous and id_discrete columns don't need to be specified in the dictionary

       **verbose: boolean**
           whether to print shape of df and if df is admissible at the end of the function.



   :Returns:

       df: pandas dataframe
           without duplicated rows




   :Raises:

       Exception
           When the dataframe df passed in argument does not contain any duplicated row







   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: merge_event(data_left: pandas.DataFrame, data_right: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: iter, id_continuous: [Any, Any], id_event)

   
   Merges two dataframes on both discrete and continuous indices, with forward-filling of missing data.

   This function merges two Pandas DataFrames (`data_left` and `data_right`) based on discrete and continuous keys.
   It assigns the event data from data_right to the correct segment in data_left, if the event is not "out-of-bound"
   relative to the segments in data_left. The result is a dataframe with a new row for each event. Rows with NaN
   event data are kept to represent the segment state prior to the occurrence of any event (as such the returned
   dataframe contains duplicates based on subsets of columns id_discrete and id_continuous).

   :Parameters:

       **data_left** : pd.DataFrame
           The left dataframe to be merged.

       **data_right** : pd.DataFrame
           The right dataframe to be merged.

       **id_discrete** : iterable
           The list of column names representing discrete identifiers for sorting and merging
           (e.g., categorical variables)

       **id_continuous** : list of two elements (Any, Any)
           A list with two elements representing the continuous index (e.g., time or numerical variables).
           The first element is the column name of the continuous identifier used for sorting.

       **id_event:**
           the name of the column containing the exact localisation of the event



   :Returns:

       pd.DataFrame
           A merged dataframe that combines `data_left` and `data_right`.











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_on_segmentation(df_segmentation: pandas.DataFrame, df_data: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: list[str], id_continuous: list[str], dict_agg: dict[str, list[str]] | None = None)

   
   adds data to segmentation


   :Parameters:

       **df_segmentation: pd.DataFrame**
           the dataframe containing the segmentation. Should contain only columns id_discrete and id_continuous

       **df_data: pd.DataFrame**
           the dataframe containing the features to fit to the segmentation. Should contain the columns
           id_discrete and id_continuous as well as other columns for the features of interest.

       **id_discrete**
           ..

       **id_continuous**
           ..

       **dict_agg:**
           ..



   :Returns:

       pd.DataFrame:
           a dataframe with the feature data fitted to the new segmentation.











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: compute_discontinuity(df, id_discrete: Iterable[Any], id_continuous: [Any, Any])

   
   Compute discontinuity in rail segment. The i-th element in return
   will be True if i-1 and i are discontinuous
















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ vincent-laurent/crep@e3ae8c7dbbd7aee426d564750aaed8e82889a730 🚀

_sources/autoapi/crep/index.rst, after:

crep
====

.. py:module:: crep


Submodules
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   /autoapi/crep/base/index
   /autoapi/crep/tools/index


Functions
---------

.. autoapisummary::

   crep.merge
   crep.aggregate_constant
   crep.aggregate_duplicates
   crep.merge_event
   crep.aggregate_on_segmentation
   crep.compute_discontinuity


Package Contents
----------------

.. py:function:: merge(data_left: pandas.DataFrame, data_right: pandas.DataFrame, id_continuous: [Any, Any], id_discrete: iter, how: str, remove_duplicates: bool = False, verbose=False) -> pandas.DataFrame

   
   This function aims at creating merge data frame


   :Parameters:

       **data_left**
           data frame with continuous representation

       **data_right**
           data frame with continuous representation

       **id_continuous**
           iterable of length two that delimits the edges of the segment

       **id_discrete: iterable**
           iterable that lists all the columns on which to perform a classic merge

       **how: str**
           how to make the merge, possible options are
           
           - 'left'
           - 'right'
           - 'inner'
           - 'outer'

       **remove_duplicates**
           whether to remove duplicates

       **verbose**
           ..














   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_constant(df: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: iter, id_continuous: iter)

   



   :Parameters:

       **df**
           ..

       **id_discrete**
           ..

       **id_continuous**
           ..



   :Returns:

       
           ..











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_duplicates(df: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: list[Any], id_continuous: [Any, Any], dict_agg: dict[str, list[Any]] | None = None, verbose: bool = False)

   
   Removes duplicated rows by aggregating them.
   TODO : assess


   :Parameters:

       **df** : pandas dataframe
           ..

       **id_discrete** : list
           discrete columns (object or categorical)

       **id_continuous** : list of 2 column names
           continuous columns that delimit the segments' start and end

       **dict_agg: dict, keys: agg operator, values: list of columns or None**
           specify which aggregation operator to apply for which column. If None, default is mean for all columns.
           id_continuous and id_discrete columns don't need to be specified in the dictionary

       **verbose: boolean**
           whether to print shape of df and if df is admissible at the end of the function.



   :Returns:

       df: pandas dataframe
           without duplicated rows




   :Raises:

       Exception
           When the dataframe df passed in argument does not contain any duplicated row







   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: merge_event(data_left: pandas.DataFrame, data_right: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: iter, id_continuous: [Any, Any], id_event)

   
   Assigns the details of events occurring at a specific points, in data_right, to the corresponding segment
   in data_left.


   :Parameters:

       **data_left** : pd.DataFrame
           The left dataframe to be merged.

       **data_right** : pd.DataFrame
           The right dataframe to be merged.

       **id_discrete** : iterable
           The list of column names representing discrete identifiers for sorting and merging
           (e.g., categorical variables)

       **id_continuous** : list of two elements (Any, Any)
           A list with two elements representing the continuous index (e.g., time or numerical variables).
           The first element is the column name of the continuous identifier used for sorting.

       **id_event:**
           the name of the column containing the exact localisation of the event



   :Returns:

       pd.DataFrame
           A merged dataframe that combines `data_left` and `data_right`.











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: aggregate_on_segmentation(df_segmentation: pandas.DataFrame, df_data: pandas.DataFrame, id_discrete: list[str], id_continuous: list[str], dict_agg: dict[str, list[str]] | None = None)

   
   adds data to segmentation


   :Parameters:

       **df_segmentation: pd.DataFrame**
           the dataframe containing the segmentation. Should contain only columns id_discrete and id_continuous

       **df_data: pd.DataFrame**
           the dataframe containing the features to fit to the segmentation. Should contain the columns
           id_discrete and id_continuous as well as other columns for the features of interest.

       **id_discrete**
           ..

       **id_continuous**
           ..

       **dict_agg:**
           ..



   :Returns:

       pd.DataFrame:
           a dataframe with the feature data fitted to the new segmentation.











   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!

.. py:function:: compute_discontinuity(df, id_discrete: Iterable[Any], id_continuous: [Any, Any])

   
   Compute discontinuity in rail segment. The i-th element in return
   will be True if i-1 and i are discontinuous
















   ..
       !! processed by numpydoc !!
